Hello everybody and welcome back.
In this lecture I'm going to introduce you to the node wrangler.
It is as I got the title they're super super useful and I'm genuinely surprised it's not turned on by
default.
It's so helpful.
It's quick for making your nodes set ups and many many actions to speed up the node based workflow.
Well what do I mean by that.
Let's hop on over into blender and find out more.
Okay so now that we're over in Blender let's go ahead and play with the node wrangler.
Now is not enabled by default.
I definitely have it turned on by our need to show you where to turn it on first of all if we go to
edit go down to preferences or missed it.
Here we go.
So you will need to go to the add ons tab on the left hand side once you're in there.
Just go to the search box at the top rather than just scrolling through it's far easier and you can
either type in the word node.
Probably the easiest thing to do.
And there we go.
Node wrangler.
Make sure there's a tick in this box here.
Now by default we've covered this before right.
Early on but by default you're also safe preferences will be turned on but you may have turned those
off especially if you like playing but not committing to a particular set of settings.
So what we can do here is also save preferences and then we know it's definitely done.
If you don't have also save preferences turned on if you didn't have that on or save it it means that
the next blend file you open up won't have node wrangler turned on and you're going to need that for
the next set of demonstrations.
So if we go over into the shading tab along the top there we go.
We can see everything is switched over its shading mode and we have a principle to be SDF.
This is our shader our shader controls how the surface of our model.
All of those faces on the cube are going to interact with light and we can see there's a material output
node as well.
This actually make this area bigger and the cube smaller.
I don't really care seeing too much of the cube we can zoom into it there.
So that material output.
Now that's essentially what we're going to see on screen.
You'll notice here that we've got an all dropdown.
If we click on that we can see that we've got eevee in cycles so we can actually set up specific materials
that work in either one.
Now most of the time you can get away with just leaving it is all.
And it will work perfectly in both eevee and cycles.
Occasionally that's not true in which case if you need to separate something out you can make a material
specifically so the output is set to eevee or cycles really really useful volume is for volume metrics
which will cover towards the end of the section and displacement is awesome but it is quite computationally
heavy as well.
Okay.
So what about this node wrangler why are we using that.
Well ordinarily in order to set up a texture so we can use it in the principle be SDF or any other thing
that would accept a texture we had first of all.
Which way should we go should we go backwards or forwards.
Let's go forwards.
So first of all we would need a texture coordinates.
We need to tell blender how we are mapping a texture to our model.
So the first thing we need to do is go to either the ad menu at the top here or go shift in a.
And then we need to go to an input tab which is a texture coordinates.
Now you can also use the search if you are quick at your search.
Bringing up the texture coordinates.
Boom.
Here we go.
Now fortunately for us and we'll get to you v mapping in a bit but the default cube comes already unwrapped
and we will do our own unwrapping of a cube later on.
So from the texture corner there's an optional step in between.
But I'm going to keep it simple for the moment.
Let's go ahead and add in a texture.
So an image texture.
Here we go.
We can pop that in.
And then you've got your texture coordinates you can pick any one you like for the for the moment.
If you're playing along I'm going to select EUV and pop it into the vector.
Notice here that the purple and the purple link up together the purple simply means it's a vector inputs
or outputs.
So three values is going to be coming out of there.
The yellow Well that is also three values but it is color information.
So usually yellow goes to yellow gray goes to a gray etc..
Now this is Alpha or we don't have any image loaded up.
Now you could load up any image you'd like.
Go ahead click on open and I'm going to go to my downloads and just pick one of the images that's in
here now with the file browser that's come up.
This is one way that you can work on your on your images and we can see I've got the tile textures just
down here.
I'm going to cancel that for the moment cause another way of bringing in an image texture like this
you can all click on open and go through but you don't have to do that over.
Oh sorry.
Up here I've got a series of options so I can come into my downloads again here and I can see my texture.
There you go.
That's the texture I had earlier.
Those tiles.
I can click and drag that in to my node area down at the bottom here my shader sets up and then we goes
already added in.
So there's a couple of different ways that you can add a texture to your model.
I'm going to delete my image texture by clicking on it.
It's got this white outline and just pressing the X key you will notice that a lot of the controls you
use to move around in the node ed are very similar to that of the 3D Ed so holding down the middle mouse
button is enabling you to pan around.
You can zoom in and out with the scroll wheel which is incredibly useful.
And yes you can get node setups that can fill this area with ease of course I wouldn't advise doing
that.
We'll talk about grouping things together later on as well to make it more manageable in your mind.
Okay.
So let's go ahead and link these together.
So we've got a generated normal u v object camera window and reflection.
Let's go ahead and grab you VM plug that into the vector and let's plug the color into the base color.
So here we go.
Here it's called base color.
And look at that.
My texture is applied.
Now if you've got a seamless texture it may look really nice like this does if you didn't have a seamless
texture let's say it was this swirly thing that I've got here a vortex all a half combine them together.
OK well we'll leave it like that.
That's pretty awesome.
By the looks of things.
OK.
So you can see there it's very easy to pop things together.
I did that accidentally when I dropped it in and over a line.
So that's pop these things back together.
When I dragged it over that line connecting the two sockets it automatically joins the two together
which is incredibly useful but we still not touch node wrangler.
OK.
So let's delete all of those.
I use that the leak that time rather than the X key.
Plenty of options to do it.
So let's click on the principle B SDF.
Now we can add what we've just talked about plus another node called a mapping node by pressing control
and T.
There we go.
That's added in automatically the texture coordinate a mapping node.
And this enables us to basically transform our texture so we can scale it move it and rotate it as the
information beneath here sort of lends us to believe.
So we go ahead and open or because we've already loaded something up in memory for instance these textures
here we've already brought in a couple even though they've now got 0 users scrolling so that's easier
to read.
Even though these both now have zero users I can click on it again and there we go.
It will map it in and then we can change the position in the X Y and Z for these and usually well rotation
can be incredibly useful if it's necessary but I find the scale is something so I'm going to highlight
everything there and this is counterintuitive when you have a high number on the scale your texture
is repeated lots.
And this is almost an example.
I think we're on the borderline here where even though it's a seamless texture that I have here you
can start to see the repeated patterns.
If we up that to something like 50 to really exaggerate it you can see the repeated pattern over and
over again.
In fact I see it is some lighter lines and dark lines going up and down.
That's what you have to watch out for tiling textures or seamless textures doesn't necessarily mean
you're going to get away with just repeating endlessly but I'm going to set that.
So I think I'm going to set it in this particular example to to let's try for.
Yeah that's a nice thing.
In order to show off the textures.
So what else can we do with the node wrangler.
Well instead of those three I'm going to delete them out of the way.
If I was to select the principal nodes in you you'll get in the field here's a little keyboard shortcuts
going on and you're right.
Control shift and see and then let's go all the way to where is it my downloads.
Can't see the wood for the trees.
And I to change the view type here.
This is different view types so let's go up next to the filter icon and in between that and the search
button we can change this to thumbnails.
Now we can scroll down and find the appropriate ones.
Here we go.
Now if I select all of these pages or tiffs it doesn't matter blenders not too fussy.
Other programs can be fussy with things like tiffs but blender accepts them.
Here we go.
We've got all of those selected because they've been named appropriately when we click principle.
Texture sets up.
Wow look at that.
Everything's all linked up for us very quickly.
That's incredibly useful being able to have that's there.
I'm ready to use now it's not perfect by any stretch of the imagination but it's a great start.
And now you can do loads of other things with the note wrangler.
I'm just going to show you the web page now.
OK so here we go.
Over on the blender manual again this is a link that I'll leave in the resources for you.
We've got the node wrangler introduction tells us all about it and we can start to see here control
and right mouse button and drag.
Oh shift control right mouse button so there's a way of linking things together without having to precisely
select the sockets.
So that's one of the things where you're dragging that little one output socket to an input socket.
It can be really really bad.
Lazy mix ult right mouse button so you can mix two shaders together very very quickly.
Now we won't cover all of these but we'll start using some of them as we progressed to create our textures
for our models.
There is far too many to cover in here and you're not going to remember them all at once.
I want to hammer this point home.
We're dealing with nodes.
There are so many but trying to remember every single one especially as a beginner is difficult enough
if you add on this tool.
This is a lot of stuff to remember and ultimately you're only going to really remember the ones that
you use the most shade of you.
I was hoping it was going to come up as I was talking shade of you is something I use all the time it's
incredibly useful to see if you're making tweaks somewhere what is its real effect rather than looking
at the final output of combining all your notes together you can separate out just that bit that you're
working on and that means that you can go ahead and control it much more precisely and as you can see
here.
There are many many many many options and this is why probably why it's not included by default is probably
a little bit overwhelming for the beginner but we're not going to use it all at once.
So it doesn't have to be overwhelming.
It's incredibly useful.
I recommend you turn it on under Edit Preferences.
Node wrangler get that turned on you'll thank me for it now and forever more it will be very very useful
for you and not only that I will be referring to it lots as we progress through this section.
Take care and I'll see you all in the next lecture.